User-Guide docs (#214)
OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-vscode: docs/user-guide.md

# Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code User Guide

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This guide provides detailed instructions on how to configure your Liberty project to use the Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code extension.
```

    - [Start in container](#start-in-container)
4. [Running your application tests](#running-your-application-tests)
5. [Viewing your application test reports](#viewing-your-application-test-reports)
6. [Stopping your application](#stopping-your-application)
7. [Debugging your application](#debugging-your-application)
8. [Manually adding your Liberty project to the tool window](#manually-adding-the-liberty-nature-to-a-project)
9. [Configuring a Liberty server](#configuring-a-liberty-server)
10. [Develop with Jakarta EE and MicroProfile APIs](#develop-microprofile-applications)

## Before you begin

### Application requirements

- Define a Liberty `server.xml` configuration file at location `src/main/liberty/config`.
- Configure the [Liberty Maven Plugin](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven#configuration) or [Liberty Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle#adding-the-plugin-to-the-build-script). We recommend using newer versions of the plugins as several important bug fixes have been included in recent versions.
  - Recommended minimum versions of:
    - Liberty Maven Plugin -> 3.7.1
    - Liberty Gradle Plugin -> 3.5.1

### Settings

> To ensure that the Liberty Config Language Server starts properly, we advise users define the `xml.java.home` property in their VS Code settings.

Reviewer: We should indicate here the Java 17 requirement

> ## Opening the Liberty dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Open the Liberty dashboard
```

By default, the Liberty dashboard will appear in the Project Explorer side bar. Optionally, the Liberty dashboard can be dragged into the Activity Bar.

| Side Bar view | Activity Bar view |
| ------ | ----- |
| ![Liberty Dashboard Side Bar view](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_dashboard_side_bar.png) | ![Liberty Dashboard Activity Bar view](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_dashboard_activity_bar.png)|

> If the dashboard is opened and there are projects that already properly configured to run on Liberty and use Liberty dev mode, those projects are automatically added to the dashboard when it opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects that are already properly configured to run on Liberty and use Liberty dev mode are automatically added to the Liberty dashboard when it opens. If your Liberty project does not show up in the Liberty dashboard automatically and you have the Liberty Maven or Liberty Gradle plugin configured, check out [how to manually add your project to the Liberty dashboard](#manually-add-your-liberty-project-to-the-dashboard). 
```

If you add new projects or make changes, and you need the dashboard to be refreshed, use the refresh icon in the Liberty dashboard toolbar.

![Dashboard Refresh highlighted](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/dashboardToolbarRefresh.png)

> ## Running your application on Liberty using dev mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run your application on Liberty using dev mode
```

> There are three options ([Start](#start), [Start...](#start-with-configuration), [Start in container](#start-in-container)) for starting your Liberty application in dev mode by using the menu commands provided through the Liberty dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three menu actions are available to start your Liberty application in dev mode through the Liberty dashboard or the Visual Studio Code command palette: [Start](#start), [Start...](#start-with-configuration), or [Start in container](#start-in-container).
```

> ### Using the Liberty dashboard view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the Liberty dashboard
```

> The Liberty dashboard provides a context menu to the Liberty projects in it. Users can choose the menu contents to perform a series of operations aiming to speed up application development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Liberty dashboard provides a context menu for Liberty projects. You can choose different commands from the menu to speed up application development.
```

![Dashboard context menu](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_dashboard_contextual.png)

> ### Using the Command Palette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the Visual Studio Code Command Palette
```

> The Liberty Tools plugin provides a set of commands to the [command palette](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/codespaces-reference/using-the-vs-code-command-palette-in-codespaces). The command palette is accessible a [number of ways](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/codespaces-reference/using-the-vs-code-command-palette-in-codespaces#accessing-the-vs-code-command-palette). Additionally, the `Shift` + `Alt` + `L` shortcut shows a similar menu with only Liberty commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Liberty Tools plugin provides a set of commands to the [command palette](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/codespaces-reference/using-the-vs-code-command-palette-in-codespaces). The command palette is accessible a [number of ways](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/codespaces-reference/using-the-vs-code-command-palette-in-codespaces#accessing-the-vs-code-command-palette). Additionally, the <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>L</kbd> shortcut shows a similar menu with only Liberty commands.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Liberty Tools commands that are described in the following sections are also available from the command palette.
```

![Liberty Command Palette](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_command_palette.png)

> ### Start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start your application in dev mode
```

> If you want to start your application in dev mode, select the **Start** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: Start` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start your application in dev mode, select the **Start** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

A new terminal tab opens to run the application in dev mode.

![Start command started](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStarted.png)

> ### Start with Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start your application in dev mode with configuration
```

> If you want to start your application in dev mode with custom configuration, select the **Start...** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: Start...` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.
> You can specify parameters for the [Liberty Maven dev goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#additional-parameters) or [Liberty Gradle dev task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#command-line-parameters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start your application in dev mode with custom configuration, select the **Start...** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard. The commands opens an edit dialog where you can specify parameters for the [Liberty Maven dev goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#additional-parameters) or [Liberty Gradle dev task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#command-line-parameters).
```

![Liberty Start... command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustom.png)

A new terminal tab opens to run the application in dev mode.

![Liberty Start... command running in terminal](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustomStarted.png)

The next time you choose to start with configuration again the menu will provide a history of previous used configurations.

![Liberty Start... history](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustomHistory.png)

> ### Start in container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start you application in dev mode in a container
```

> If you want to make use of dev mode for containers, select the **Start in container** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: Start in container` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use dev mode for containers, select the **Start in container** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> For more information on dev mode for containers, check out the [Liberty Maven devc goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#devc-container-mode) or the [Liberty Gradle libertyDevc task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#libertydevc-task-container-mode).
> 
> ![Liberty Start in container command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartContainer.png)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Liberty Start in container command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartContainer.png)

For more information on dev mode for containers, check out the [Liberty Maven devc goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#devc-container-mode) or the [Liberty Gradle libertyDevc task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#libertydevc-task-container-mode).

```

> ## Running your application tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run your application's tests
```

> Once your application is running on Liberty using dev mode, you can easily run the tests provided by your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After your application is running on Liberty using dev mode, you can easily run the tests provided by your application.
```

> To do this, select the **Run tests** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: Run tests` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run tests, select the **Run tests** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

The tests are run in the corresponding terminal.

![Liberty run tests command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/run_tests_command.png)

> ## Viewing your application test reports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View your application's test reports
```

After you finish running your application tests, you can access the produced test reports.

![Liberty show test results](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/show_test_report.png)

> ### Maven built application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Maven-built applications
```

> To view the integration test report for Maven built applications, select the **View integration test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: View integration test report` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the integration test report for Maven built applications, select the **View integration test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> Note that this command will look for the integration test report at the default location `/target/site/failsafe-report.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will look for the integration test report at the `/target/site/failsafe-report.html` default location.
```

> To view the unit test report for Maven built applications, select the **View unit test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: View unit test report` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the unit test report for Maven built applications, select the **View unit test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> Note that this command will look for the unit test report at the default location `/target/site/surefire-report.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will look for the unit test report at the`/target/site/surefire-report.html` default location.
```

> ### Gradle built application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Gradle-built applications
```

> To view the test report for Gradle built applications, select the **View test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: View test report` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the test report for Gradle-built applications, select the **View test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> Note that this command will look for the test report at the default location `build/reports/tests/test/index.html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will look for the test report at the `build/reports/tests/test/index.html` default location.
```

> ## Stopping your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stop your application
```

> To stop your application, select the **Stop** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard or select the `Liberty: Stop` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop your application, select the **Stop** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

![Stop command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStop.png)

Once the project is stopped, the terminal in which it ran is closed.

> ## Debugging your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Debug your application
```

To attach the debugger, you must have a [running server](#running-your-application-on-liberty-using-dev-mode). Once running, click on the `Attach debugger` command or select the `Liberty: Attach debugger` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

![Attach Debugger](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/attach_debugger.png)

When attached, Visual Studio Code's [debug options](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) will become available.

![Debug Mode](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/debugger_mode.png)

> ## Manually adding the Liberty nature to a project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manually add your Liberty project to the dashboard
```

> To manually add your Liberty project to the in the Liberty dashboard, right click into an empty space in the project explorer and select **Add project to Liberty Dashboard** or select the `Liberty: Add project to the tool window` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event that your Liberty project is not automatically detected by the Liberty dashboard, you can manually add your Liberty project to the Liberty dashboard. To manually add your Liberty project to the in the Liberty dashboard, right click into an empty space in the project explorer and select **Add project to Liberty Dashboard** or select the `Liberty: Add project to the tool window` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.
```

![Liberty add project to tool window](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/add_liberty_project.png)

> You will be prompted with a list of available projects that are not already displayed in the in the Liberty dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are prompted with a list of projects that are not already displayed in the in the Liberty dashboard.
```

![Liberty add project to tool window selection](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/add_liberty_project_2.png)

You can remove manually added Liberty projects from the in the Liberty dashboard right clicking into an empty space in the project explorer and selecting `Remove project from Liberty Dashboard` or by selecting the `Liberty: Remove project from the tool window` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

![Liberty Remove Project](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/removeLibertyProject.png)

> ## Configuring a Liberty server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure a Liberty server
```

> Liberty configuration assistance is offered through the Liberty Config Language Server. For more information, see the [project documentation in GitHub](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-language-server#liberty-config-language-server).
> 
> 1. Start the project in dev mode by using one of the previously described Liberty dashboard or command palette commands. Dev mode installs the Liberty features that are required for your application.
> 2. Open any of the supported Liberty configuration files.
> 3. To use Liberty-specific code completion, press `Ctrl`/`Cmd` + `Space` anywhere within the document. A drop-down list of completion suggestions appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Liberty configuration assistance (code completion, diagnostics and quick-fixes) provides editing assistance in Liberty `server.xml`, 'server.env`, and `bootstrap.properties` files. 

1. Start the project in dev mode by using one of the previously described Liberty dashboard or command palette commands. Dev mode installs the Liberty features that are required for your application.
2. Open any of the supported Liberty configuration files.
3. To use Liberty-specific code completion, press `Ctrl`/`Cmd` + `Space` anywhere within the document. A drop-down list of completion suggestions appears.

Liberty configuration assistance is offered through the Liberty Config Language Server. For more information, see the [project documentation in GitHub](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-language-server#liberty-config-language-server).
```

Should we include how to trigger diagnostics, or link out to some examples on the LCLS docs?

Author: I'd rather link out to LCLS docs

![LCLS server.xml completion](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/serverXmlCompletion.png)

> ## Develop MicroProfile applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Develop with Jakarta EE and MicroProfile APIs
```

# Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code User Guide

This guide provides detailed instructions on how to configure your Liberty project to use the Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code extension.

> 1. [Before you begin](#before-you-begin)

Reviewer 2: this change should go to intellij too- I'll make a PR

    - [Settings](#settings)
2. [Open the Liberty dashboard](#open-the-liberty-dashboard)
3. [Run your application on Liberty using dev mode](#run-your-application-on-liberty-using-dev-mode)
    - [Use the Liberty dashboard](#use-the-liberty-dashboard)
    - [Use the Visual Studio Code Command Palette](#use-the-visual-studio-code-command-palette)
    - [Start your application in dev mode](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode)
    - [Start your application in dev mode with configuration](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-with-configuration)
    - [Start your application in dev mode in a container](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-in-a-container)
4. [Run your application's tests](#run-your-applications-tests)
5. [View your application test reports](#view-your-application-test-reports)
6. [Stop your application](#stop-your-application)
7. [Debug your application](#debug-your-application)
8. [Manually add your liberty project to the dashboard](#manually-add-your-liberty-project-to-the-dashboard)
9. [Configure a Liberty server](#configure-a-liberty-server)
10. [Develop with Jakarta EE and MicroProfile APIs](#develop-with-jakarta-ee-and-microprofile-apis)

> 

Reviewer 2: For the language in the application requirements section, mirror what we used for Intellij: 
https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#application-requirements

### Settings

> Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code requires Java 17 for functionality.

Reviewer 2: java 17 is listed as a "Software requirement" in Intellij- would it not be the same here?  requirements

> Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code requires Java 17 for functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Liberty Tools for Visual Studio Code requires Java 17 .
```

> To ensure that the Liberty Config Language Server starts properly, we advise users define the `xml.java.home` property in their VS Code settings or set the system JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to Java 17 .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the Liberty Config Language Server starts properly, define the `xml.java.home` property in your VS Code settings or set the system `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to point to Java 17 .
```

## Open the Liberty dashboard

By default, the Liberty dashboard will appear in the Project Explorer side bar. Optionally, the Liberty dashboard can be dragged into the Activity Bar.

| Side Bar view | Activity Bar view |
| ------ | ----- |
| ![Liberty Dashboard Side Bar view](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_dashboard_side_bar.png) | ![Liberty Dashboard Activity Bar view](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_dashboard_activity_bar.png)|

> Projects that are projects that already properly configured to run on Liberty and use Liberty dev mode are automatically added to the Liberty dashboard when it opens. If your Liberty project does not show up in the Liberty dashboard automatically and you have the Liberty Maven or Liberty Gradle plugin configured, check out [how to manually add your project to the Liberty dashboard](#manually-add-your-liberty-project-to-the-dashboard).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Projects that are already properly configured to run on Liberty and use Liberty dev mode are automatically added the Liberty dashboard when it opens. If your Liberty project does not show up in the Liberty dashboard automatically and you have the Liberty Maven or Liberty Gradle plugin configured, check out [how to manually add your project to the Liberty dashboard](#manually-add-your-liberty-project-to-the-dashboard).
```

Author: Oops

> If you add new projects or make changes, and you need the dashboard to be refreshed, use the refresh icon in the Liberty dashboard toolbar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you add new projects or make changes, use the refresh icon in the Liberty dashboard toolbar to refresh the dashboard view.
```

![Dashboard Refresh highlighted](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/dashboardToolbarRefresh.png)

## Run your application on Liberty using dev mode

> Three menu actions are available to start your Liberty application in dev mode through the Liberty dashboard or the Visual Studio Code command palette: [Start your application in dev mode](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode), [Start your application in dev mode with configuration](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-with-configuration), or [Start your application in dev mode in a container](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-in-a-container).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following three menu actions are available to start your Liberty application in dev mode through the Liberty dashboard or the Visual Studio Code command palette: 
- [Start your application in dev mode](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode) 
- [Start your application in dev mode with configuration](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-with-configuration)
- [Start your application in dev mode in a container](#start-your-application-in-dev-mode-in-a-container)
```

![Liberty Command Palette](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/liberty_command_palette.png)

### Start your application in dev mode

To start your application in dev mode, select the **Start** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

A new terminal tab opens to run the application in dev mode.

![Start command started](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStarted.png)

### Start your application in dev mode with configuration

To start your application in dev mode with custom configuration, select the **Start...** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard. The command opens an edit dialog where you can specify parameters for the [Liberty Maven dev goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#additional-parameters) or [Liberty Gradle dev task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#command-line-parameters).

![Liberty Start... command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustom.png)

A new terminal tab opens to run the application in dev mode.

![Liberty Start... command running in terminal](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustomStarted.png)

> The next time you choose to start with configuration again the menu will provide a history of previous used configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next time you choose to start dev mode with configuration, the menu provides a history of previously used configurations.
```

![Liberty Start... history](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartCustomHistory.png)

### Start your application in dev mode in a container

To use dev mode for containers, select the **Start in container** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

![Liberty Start in container command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStartContainer.png)

For more information on dev mode for containers, check out the [Liberty Maven devc goal](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.maven/blob/main/docs/dev.md#devc-container-mode) or the [Liberty Gradle libertyDevc task](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/ci.gradle/blob/main/docs/libertyDev.md#libertydevc-task-container-mode).

> ## Run your application's tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run your application tests
```

After your application is running on Liberty using dev mode, you can easily run the tests provided by your application.

To run tests, select the **Run tests** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

The tests are run in the corresponding terminal.

> ![Liberty run tests command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/run_tests_command.png)

Reviewer 2: this image isn't resolving

## View your application test reports

After you finish running your application tests, you can access the produced test reports.

![Liberty show test results](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/show_test_report.png)

### Maven-built applications

> To view the integration test report for Maven built applications, select the **View integration test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the integration test report for Maven-built applications, select the **View integration test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> This command will look for the integration test report at the `/target/site/failsafe-report.html` default location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command looks for the integration test report at the `/target/site/failsafe-report.html` default location.
```

> To view the unit test report for Maven built applications, select the **View unit test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the unit test report for Maven-built applications, select the **View unit test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.
```

> This command will look for the unit test report at the`/target/site/surefire-report.html` default location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command looks for the unit test report at the`/target/site/surefire-report.html` default location.
```

### Gradle-built applications

To view the test report for Gradle-built applications, select the **View test report** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

> This command will look for the test report at the `build/reports/tests/test/index.html` default location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command looks for the test report at the `build/reports/tests/test/index.html` default location.
```

## Stop your application

To stop your application, select the **Stop** command for your application in the Liberty dashboard.

![Stop command](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/devModeStop.png)

## Debug your application

> To attach the debugger, you must have a [running server](#run-your-application-on-liberty-using-dev-mode). Once running, click on the `Attach debugger` command or select the `Liberty: Attach debugger` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To attach the debugger, you must have a [running server](#run-your-application-on-liberty-using-dev-mode). Once the server is running, click the **Attach debugger** command or select the **Liberty: Attach debugger** command in the command palette, followed by your application.
```

![Attach Debugger](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/attach_debugger.png)

> When attached, Visual Studio Code's [debug options](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) will become available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the debugger is attached, the Visual Studio Code [debug options](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) become available.
```

![Debug Mode](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/debugger_mode.png)

## Manually add your Liberty project to the dashboard

> In the event that your Liberty project is not automatically detected by the Liberty dashboard, you can manually add your Liberty project to the Liberty dashboard. To manually add your Liberty project to the in the Liberty dashboard, right click into an empty space in the project explorer and select **Add project to Liberty Dashboard** or select the `Liberty: Add project to the tool window` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the event that your Liberty project is not automatically detected by the Liberty dashboard, you can manually add your Liberty project to the Liberty dashboard. To manually add your Liberty project to the Liberty dashboard, right-click into an empty space in the project explorer and select **Add project to Liberty Dashboard** or select the **Liberty: Add project to the tool window** command in the command palette, followed by your application.
```

![Liberty add project to tool window](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/add_liberty_project.png)

You are prompted with a list of projects that are not already displayed in the in the Liberty dashboard.

![Liberty add project to tool window selection](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/add_liberty_project_2.png)

> You can remove manually added Liberty projects from the in the Liberty dashboard right clicking into an empty space in the project explorer and selecting `Remove project from Liberty Dashboard` or by selecting the `Liberty: Remove project from the tool window` command in the command palette followed by your desired application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To remove manually added Liberty projects from the Liberty dashboard, right-click in an empty space in the project explorer and select **Remove project from Liberty Dashboard** or select the **Liberty: Remove project from the tool window** command in the command palette, followed by your application.
```

![Liberty Remove Project](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/removeLibertyProject.png)

## Configure a Liberty server

> Liberty configuration assistance [(code completion, diagnostics and quick-fixes)](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-language-server#features) provides editing assistance in Liberty `server.xml`, `server.env`, and `bootstrap.properties` files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Liberty configuration assistance provides editing assistance, such as [code completion, diagnostics, and quick-fixes](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-language-server#features), in Liberty `server.xml`, `server.env`, and `bootstrap.properties` files.
```

1. Start the project in dev mode by using one of the previously described Liberty dashboard or command palette commands. Dev mode installs the Liberty features that are required for your application.
2. Open any of the supported Liberty configuration files.
3. To use Liberty-specific code completion, press <kbd>Ctrl/Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Space</kbd> anywhere within the document. A drop-down list of completion suggestions appears.

Liberty configuration assistance is offered through the Liberty Config Language Server. For more information, see the [project documentation in GitHub](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-language-server#liberty-config-language-server).

![LCLS server.xml completion](/docs/user-guide-screenshots/serverXmlCompletion.png)

> ## Develop with Jakarta EE and MicroProfile APIs

Reviewer 2: This section should mirror the structure of https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-intellij/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#develop-with-jakarta-ee-and-microprofile-apis
